#summary list of features

= Features =

We'll use this page to document all the features that will be put into the client. We can sort them into three groups: Beta, Release, Post-Release. We can use the strike-through tag (`<s></s>`) to indicate finished features as they are implemented.

=== Beta ===

This will hold the core features that are typical of an IRC client. There won't be many features that distinguish this client from other IRC clients.

  * basic UI to connect to a server (with SSL capability) by specifying server and port
  * basic UI to manage configuration settings (a list of settings is needed)
  * UI to access channel settings, such as topic, modes, bans, excepts, invites
  * full implementation of the IRC protocol (including CTCP)
  * debug messages window, which prints out all raw messages to/from server
  * chat output control
    * needs to be custom-made, and we'll try to use [http://qt.nokia.com/doc/4.6/qtwebkit.html QtWebKit] for the implementation
    * dynamic color changes
      * when the user changes color options, all existing text is changed
    * old chat text is clipped after a certain number of lines of chat
    * URL highlighting (or clickable URLs)
    * channel-specific chat output
      * nick highlighting
        * your nick appears in bold or the entire line is a certain color
        * other nicks can be right-clicked, and a menu UI will be available with some options
          * msg/notice
          * whois
          * ctcp options
      * nick completion
        * press tab and the client tries to auto-complete the nickname you are typing
  * chat logging


=== Release ===

This is the set of features that will distinguish the client from other IRC clients (well, a basic IRC client anyway).

  * aliases
    * basic implementation of defining shorthand commands to execute a set of much longer commands
    * might want to include some basic error checking for invalid commands (ie too few parameters specified)
  * search bar
    * similar to firefox's in that it searches while the user types
    * similar to chrome's in that it marks all the found results in the scrollbar (with small lines)
  * smart nick completion
    * it assigns higher precedence to nicks that have spoken recently, so when performing nick completion with the tab button, you're more likely to get a nickname that you want; after the precedence, it is still ordered alphabetically
  * plugin API and scripting language integration (will need to be defined in much more detail later)
    * event system, and hooking mechanism where plugins can have their functions called when a certain event takes place (either before or after the event)
    * capability to manipulate any windows and containers (size and position)
    * capability to execute any commands that are possible via the input control (both general client commands and IRC commands)
      * we can probably just create functions that are exposed to the plugin API and which are also used by the chat input control for commands
  * channel list window
    * mostly completed already; it just needs a redesign of the actual list control so it can support faster display (for lists on large networks, like freenode)
  * shape the UI for config settings and server connection to make it more user-friendly

=== Post-Release ===

These are features that are nice to have, but aren't necessarily vital to release. In fact, they may be implemented through the plugin API instead of becoming a part of the core client.

  * some form of indication for the user that the chat output scrollbar is not scrolled down all the way
  * proxy tunneling
    * zstars requested this, and I don't know much about it, but we can [http://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/SOCKS do some research]
  * capability to apply custom skins